Hi everyone? So far
in this module,
we've described the planning
problem in general,
we've described a hierarchy for
solving the complex
planning problem,
and we described
the constraints and
objectives that make
planning so hard.
In this lesson, we'll discuss
the hierarchy for decomposing,
the overall planning problem
into smaller sub-problems
in more detail.
By the end of this video,
you will understand the scope
of mission planning,
behavioral planning, and
local planning sub-problems.
You'll be able to list
some methods for solving
each of the problems,
you'll also understand why
this hierarchy is used
in many self-driving car
systems progressively
refining the plans
for motion through
the environment.
Let's begin by reviewing
our planning hierarchy.
If you recall from lesson
one of this module,
we introduced the
hierarchical structure we
will use for motion planning
and it's autonomous driving.
We described each level of
the hierarchical planner
as defining its own
optimization problem,
with each level of the hierarchy
having a specific degree of
abstraction with respect to
the relevant objective function
and constraints.
The mission planner is
the highest level
optimization problem where
we focus on map level navigation
from the vehicles
current position,
to a given destination.
Behavioral planning on
the other hand will
focus on the current
driving scenario,
and will decide which maneuver to
execute based on other agents
in the workspace,
and the rules of the road.
Finally, we have
the local planner,
which will focus on generating
kinematically feasible,
collision-free paths, as well as
comfortable velocity profiles
in a decoupled manner.
This will then be output to
our vehicle controller that
we discussed in course one.
By breaking the planning problem
into sub-problems,
we constrain how much knowledge
and computation is
required at each part of
the motion planning process.
Which allows for
more efficient computation.
This comes with a
trade-off however,
as when we decompose the problem,
each sub-problem loses
some domain information.
We end up with
a sub-optimal motion plan
as compared to emotion plan
that takes all aspects of
the planning process into
consideration at the same time.
For autonomous driving,
the ability to run
our motion planner in
real-time is crucial, so
this trade-off is
almost always worth it.
Some motion planning
methods integrate
the differing sub-problems
in varying degrees.
But in this lesson,
we're going to focus on
this particular
hierarchical decomposition.
Next, let's go over each
of these steps in detail.
As mentioned, the first
and highest level step in
our hierarchical motion planner
is the mission planner.
The mission planner focuses on
map level navigation from
the ego-vehicles
current position,
through a required destination.
Because the scale
of mission planning
is often on the
order of kilometers,
we require a high level of
abstraction to make
the problem tractable.
In this sense we often
ignore aspects of
the motion planning
problems such as
obstacles and
regulatory elements,
and instead focus on
the macro aspects of
the problem such as traffic
and road connections.
By doing this, we can
simplify the problem to
the point where we can plan out
a required driving mission,
over a large spatial scale.
An example is shown here
where we are planning
between two points on a map
of Berkeley, California,
taking into consideration
the various intersections
and road connections on the map,
as well as the
directionality of each road.
Doing so, we then compute
the shortest path in our road
network to our destination.
This can be done in
a variety of ways.
If we focus on the spatial length
of the roads in the road network,
we can construct a graph from
the road network and then use
Dijkstra's algorithm or A* search
to find the shortest path.
If instead we focus on time to
destination as
our objective to minimize,
the problem becomes
more complex but can
still be solved using
the same algorithms.
We will discuss these methods in
much more detail in module three.
The next step in
our hierarchical planner
is the behavior planner.
What is the behavior planner?
The behavior planner is
a portion of the motion
planner that focuses on
high level decision making
required to follow the
rules of the road,
and recognize which maneuvers are
safe to make in
a given driving scenario.
We discussed many of
these scenarios in
our first lessons together.
For example, recall that
one of the scenarios we
discussed was performing
a turn at an intersection.
Let's say for
the sake of example,
the ego-vehicle has
entered an intersection to
perform a left turn and
the light is turning green.
The behavior planner
should make it clear to
the path planner and
velocity generator,
that is only safe to
proceed when there is
sufficient time gap between
the ego-vehicles position,
and the oncoming traffic and
pedestrians in the intersection.
Following the taxonomy of
maneuvers we discussed
in our first lesson,
the behavior planner
should output
a yield maneuver to
the remaining portion
of the motion planner,
which will ensure that they only
proceed once it is
cleared to do so.
Of course, our taxonomy
is in no way universal,
there are many possibilities
when deciding what types of
maneuvers and what scope of
behaviors your autonomous car
should exhibit.
Now you may be wondering how is
the behavior planner are
supposed to take in all of
the information about
the autonomous vehicles
surroundings and
calculate what maneuver it should
execute in an efficient manner.
This is an area of active
research and there
is no settled best method
to achieve this.
In general, there appear to be
three different
prevailing architectures
to solve the behavioral
planning problem.
The first group are methods that
use finite state machines.
The key concept behind
finite state machines is
that they are composed
of: states which represent
the ego-vehicles
required maneuvers,
and transitions which dictate how
the state should evolve
depending on the inputs.
These may be things
like: vehicle locations,
traffic light transitions, or
any other element of
interest in our current
driving scenario.
As an example, one could imagine
a state machine that handles stop
signs to have a state such
as decelerate to stop,
stop and track speed.
When a car encounters
a stop sign,
it would first enter
the decelerate to stop state,
where the behavioral
planner would then
signal that it is
time to decelerate.
Once it has stopped
at the stop location,
the behavior planner
will remain in
the stop state for
a set amount of time.
Once the time has been exceeded
and the intersection is clear,
the behavior planner will
then enter the track speeds
state which means it is
safe to continue driving.
We go through this example in
more detail in a later module
in this course.
It is important to note that
when deciding which transition
to take at each step of
the finite state machine,
we focus entirely on
the current state,
and the inputs to
the finite state machine.
Essentially, this means that
the finite state
machine is memoryless.
Its past states do not
impact the current
transition or output.
This is a helpful
property that makes
finite state machines
straightforward to implement,
but can lead to many states
that are similar
for systems where sequences
of actions do matter.
The next common type of
behavioral planners are
rule-based systems.
Essentially,
these type of systems
consist of a hierarchy of rules,
where the hierarchy represents
the relative importance
of each rule.
Each rule may
correspond to a rule of
the road such as
stopping at a red light,
or may correspond to
a driving best practice such as
maintaining a two second gap,
between the ego-vehicle
and a leading vehicle.
The state of the ego-vehicle and
its surroundings
would then be fed
into the rule-based system in
the form of logical predicates.
These predicates would
then be evaluated against
every rule and based
on the rule priority,
the maneuver corresponding to
the highest priority rule would
be output to the rest
of the motion planner.
For example, suppose we have
the following two rules.
The first rule checks if
there is a green light ahead
and issues a decision for
the car to continue driving.
While the second rule checks
if there are pedestrians in
the cars lanes and issues
a decision to perform
the emergency stop maneuver.
In our system, stopping
for a pedestrian in
front of us is higher priority
than driving through green light.
Now suppose we were driving
along and observe
a green light at
the upcoming
intersection as well as
a pedestrian crossing illegally
in front of the intersection.
Both rules would trigger
in this case but
since the emergency stop
is higher priority,
that is the maneuver that
the rule-based system
will output.
As you can imagine, it is both
important and challenging to
make sure rule-based systems
are logically consistent.
Otherwise, they can
exhibit erratic behavior.
The final group of
behavior planning approaches are
machine learning-based methods.
In particular,
an interesting example of
this method is using
reinforcement learning.
Reinforcement learning is
the process of determining
an optimal decision-making policy
that maximizes
some reward function R.
This reward function values
the quality of a given chain
of actions for
all time steps discounting
future states more
heavily than the present.
The process of
reinforcement learning
requires the agent to
perform actions in an environment
often given by simulation.
This agent is then rewarded
according to its interaction
with the environment.
Which then allows
it to converge to
an optimal policy through
successive interactions.
This group of behavior planning
approaches is rapidly
expanding area of research
and unfortunately,
a deep dive is beyond
the scope of this course.
The next and final module in
our hierarchical planner
is the local planner.
As mentioned earlier, the goal
of the local planner
is to generate
kinematically feasible
and collision-free paths
as well as comfortable,
and safe velocity profiles
for the ego vehicle.
We decompose the local
planning problem
into two sub-problems;
path planning and velocity
profile generation.
The key ingenuity
behind developing
a good path planning algorithm is
reducing the search
space for optimization.
There are three main categories
of path planners;
sampling-based planners,
variational planners
and lattice planners.
Sampling-based planners
randomly sample
the control inputs of
the car uniformly,
in order to generate
potential paths for
the car to traverse.
One of the most iconic
sampling-based algorithms is
the Rapidly Exploring Random Tree
or RRT and its variance.
These algorithms
construct the branches
of the tree of paths by
generating points in
randomly sampled locations
and planning a path to the point,
from the nearest point
in the tree.
If the path is free from
collisions with
any static obstacles,
that path is added to the tree.
This tree quickly explores
the workspace with
many potential paths and when
a goal region is reached,
the path that terminates in
that region is returned.
Sampling-based
algorithms are often
extremely fast but at the cost of
potentially generating
poorer quality erratic paths
when run in a short
number of cycles.
Variational planners
rely on the calculus of
variations to optimize
a trajectory function which
maps points in time to
positions in the workspace
according to some
cost-functional that
takes obstacles
and robot dynamics
into consideration.
Variational planners are
usually trajectory planners,
which means they combine
both path planning
and velocity planning
into a single-step.
So they do not have
to decouple the path
planning and velocity
planning problems.
As an example, suppose
we start off with
a given discrete sampling
of a path in space.
At first, it is in
collision with an obstacle
shown as well.
A variational planner
will iteratively move
the discrete points
such that they are
smooth with respect to
the robot's dynamics,
as well as keeping
them collision-free.
By the end, the
trajectory will be both
collision-free and smoother with
respect to the dynamics
of the robot.
However, variational methods
are often slower,
more complex and
their convergence to
a feasible path is sensitive
to the initial conditions.
An example of
a variational method
is the chomp algorithm.
Variational planners go beyond
the scope of this course,
but for those interested,
the chomp algorithm provides
an excellent example for
further exploration
and is included
in a link in the
supplemental materials.
The final group of path
planners are lattice planners.
Lattice planners constrain
the search space by limiting
the actions that
the ego vehicle can
take at any point
in the workspace.
This set of actions is known as
the control set of
the lattice planner.
This control set, when paired
with a discretization
of the workspace,
implicitly defines a graph.
This graph can then
be searched using
a graph search algorithm
such as Dijkstra's or A*,
which results in
fast computation of paths.
Obstacles can set edges that
cross them to infinite cost.
So the graph search allows us to
perform collision
checking as well.
While the lattice planner
is often quite fast,
the quality of paths are
sensitive to the
selected control set.
A common variance on
the lattice planner is
known as the conformal
lattice planner.
Where a goal points are
selected some distance
ahead of the car,
laterally offset from one
another with respect
to the direction of
the road and a path is optimized
to each of these points.
The path that best satisfies
some objective while also
remaining collision free is
then chosen as the
path to execute.
In our previous video,
we outlined some objectives
that we can choose
to influence the path
planning process such as,
arc length and bending energy.
The second part of
our local Plan is
the velocity profile generation.
Velocity profile
generation is usually
set up as a constrained
optimization problem.
Generally, we would
combine many of
the velocity profile objectives
described in
the previous video such
as the goals of minimizing
jerk or minimizing deviation
from a desired reference.
We also discussed
some important constraints
in lesson two.
One of which was the rectangle
of comfortable accelerations.
This is in no way
an exhaustive list
of objectives or constraints.
You will encounter many more
in your time as
an autonomy engineer.
Once the objectives and
constraints are formalized,
it becomes a matter of solving
the problem efficiently.
One way to do this
is to calculate
convex approximations to
the optimization domain
and objectives,
which helps ensure that
our optimizer doesn't get
stuck in local minima.
Now that we've
discussed each level
in our hierarchical planner,
let's summarize what we've
covered in this lesson.
We first went over mission
planning and how our planner
navigates through a map to
get to our destination.
Next, we discussed
behavior planning.
Where we need to select driving
behaviors based on
the situation at hand.
Finally, we discussed
the local planner,
which we split into path
planning and velocity
profile generation.
We gave a few examples
of the types of
path planning algorithms and we
discussed how to optimize
the velocity profile for
a given plan path
and reference speed.
Congratulations,
you've reached the end
of the first module in
the fourth course of our
self-driving car specialization.
Hopefully, you now have
a good idea of what
the different approaches are when
designing a hierarchical
motion planner.
Throughout the rest
of this course,
we'll introduce
the tools you need to
solve each level of
the motion planning problem.
But before we do that,
we're going to look at how to
build occupancy grid maps for
effective collision
avoidance detection
in the next module.
See you there.